# Module 8: Networking Azure Application Components 

# Lab Answer Key: Deploying Network Components for Use in Azure Solutions

## Before we start

1. Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    - **Username**: Admin

    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd

1. Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    - Microsoft Edge

    - File Explorer

    - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    - [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    - Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    - Windows PowerShell

    - Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Create an ARM Template for a Linux VM

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1. On the Taskbar, click the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1. In the open browser window, navigate to the **Azure Portal** (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1. Enter the **email address** of your *Microsoft account*.

1. Click the **Next** button.

1. Enter the **password** for your *Microsoft account*.

1. Click the **Sign in** button.

#### Task 2: Create a Basic Linux-VM ARM Template

1.

#### Task 3: Validate the ARM Template

1.

> **Review**: In this exercise, 

## Exercise 2: Duplicate Virtual Machine Resources

#### Task 1: Use Copy Functionality to Create Three VMs.

1.

> **Review**: In this exercise, 

## Exercise 3: Create a Load Balancer Resource

#### Task 1: Create a Load Balancer Associated With the Three NICs

1. 

#### Task 2: Configure the Load Balancer to Balance on Port 80

1.

> **Review**: In this exercise, 

## Exercise 4: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MODXXXXXX** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MODXXXXXX --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1. Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.