# Module 2: Deploying Resources with Azure Resource Manager

# Lab Answer Key: Getting Started with Azure Resource Manager

## Before we start

1. Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    - **Username**: Admin

    - **Password**: Pa55w.rd

2. Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    - Microsoft Edge

    - File Explorer

    - [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    - [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    - Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    - Windows PowerShell

    - Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Create Resource Groups

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1. On the Taskbar, click the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

1. In the open browser window, navigate to the **Azure Portal** (<https://portal.azure.com>).

1. Enter the **email address** of your *Microsoft account*.

1. Click the **Next** button.

1. Enter the **password** for your *Microsoft account*.

1. Click the **Sign in** button.

    > **Note**: If this is your first time logging in to the **Azure Portal**, you will see a dialog with a *tour* of the portal. Click **Get Started** to begin using the portal.

#### Task 2: Create a Resource Group using the Portal

1. On the left side of the portal, click the **Create a resource** link.

    > The **Create a resource** icon is a *plus-sign* character.

1. At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

1. Enter the text **Resource Group** into the search field and press **Enter**.

1. In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Resource group** result.

1. In the **Resource group** blade, click the **Create** button.

1. In the additional **Resource group** blade, perform the following actions:

    a. In the **Resource group name** field, enter the value **MOD02STOR**.

    a. Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    a. In the **Resource group location** field, select the **East US** location.

    a. Click the **Create** button.

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: Create a Resource Group using the Cloud Shell and Azure CLI

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

    > **Note**: The **Cloud Shell** icon is a symbol that is constructed of the combination of the *greater than* and *underscore* characters.

1. Because this is your first time opening the **Cloud Shell** using your *Azure Pass* subscription, you will see a wizard to configure **Cloud Shell** for first-time usage. Perform the following actions:

    a. When offered a choice between **Bash** or **PowerShell**, select the **Bash** option.

    a. You will then see a dialog prompting you to create a new **Storage Account** to begin using the shell. You can safely accept the default settings and click the **Create storage** button.

    a. Wait for the **Cloud Shell** to finish its first-time setup procedures before moving on with the lab.

    > If you do not see the configuration options for **Cloud Shell**, this is most likely because you are using an existing subscription with this course's labs. The labs are written from the perspective that you are using a new Azure Pass subscription. You may see some small discrepancies in future lab instructions.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of possible CLI commands:

    ```
    az --help
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of possible CLI commands for *Resource Groups*:

    ```
    az group --help
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of possible CLI commands to *create a Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group create --help
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of possible CLI commands to *list Resource Groups*:

    ```
    az group list --help
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new resource group with the following details:

    - **Name**: MOD02APPS

    - **Location**: East US

    ```
    az group create --name MOD02APPS --location eastus
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you used the **Azure Portal** to create a resource group directly using the portal interface. You also used the **Cloud Shell** within the portal to create a resource group using the **Azure CLI** tool.

## Exercise 2: Deploy a Minimal Template

#### Task 1: Deploy Storage Account ARM Template

1. On the left side of the portal, click the **New** link.

1. At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

1. Enter the text **Template Deployment** into the search field and press **Enter**.

1. In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Template deployment** result.

1. In the **Template deployment** blade, click the **Create** button.

1. In the **Custom deployment** blade, click the *Build your own template in the editor* link.

1. In the **Edit template** blade, locate the text editor and delete the existing template content.

1. Copy and paste the following ARM template into the template editor:

    ```
    {
        "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2015-01-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
        "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
        "resources": [
            {
                "apiVersion": "2015-06-15",
                "name": "[concat('stor', uniqueString(resourceGroup().id))]",
                "type": "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts",
                "location": "[resourceGroup().location]",
                "properties": {
                    "accountType": "Standard_LRS"
                }
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

1. Click the **Save** button to persist the template.

1. Back in the **Custom deployment** blade, perform the following actions:

    a. Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    a. In the **Resource group** section, select the **Use existing** option.

    a. In the **Resource group** section, locate the list and select the **MOD02STOR** option.

    a. In the **Terms and Conditions** section, select the *I agree to the terms and conditions stated above* checkbox.

    a. Click the **Purchase** button.

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 2: View Deployment Metadata

1. On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

1. In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD02STOR** *Resource Group* link.

1. In the **MOD02STOR** blade, locate the **Settings** section on the left side of the blade and click the **Deployments** link. 

1. In the **Deployments** pane, select the latest deployment to view its metadata in a new blade.

1. Within the deployment blade, observe the information displayed in the **Operation details** section.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you deployed a minimal ARM template that created a deployment using a simple ARM template that deployed a single resource without any input or output values.

## Exercise 3: Deploy a Simple Template

#### Task 1: View ARM Template

1. On the Taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.

1. In the **File Explorer** window that appears, navigate to the **Allfiles (F):\\Mod02\\Labfiles\\Starter** folder.

1. Right-click the **deploy.json** file and select the **Open with Code** option to start the **Visual Studio Code** application.

1. In the **Visual Studio Code** window that appears, observe the content of the JSON file.

1. At the top of the **Visual Studio Code** window, click the **File** menu and select the **Close Folder** option.

1. Close the **File Explorer** window.

1. Return to the **Microsoft Edge** window with the **Azure Portal** open.

#### Task 2: Deploy App Service ARM Template

1. On the left side of the portal, click the **New** link.

1. At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

1. Enter the text **Template Deployment** into the search field and press **Enter**.

1. In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Template deployment** result.

1. In the **Template deployment** blade, click the **Create** button.

1. In the **Custom deployment** blade, click the *Build your own template in the editor* link.

1. In the **Edit template** blade, click the **Load file** link.

1. In the **Open** file dialog that appears, navigate to the **Allfiles (F):\\Mod02\\Labfiles\\Starter** folder.

1. Select the **deploy.json** file.

1. Click the **Open** button.

1. Back in the **Edit template** blade, click the **Save** button to persist the template.

1. Back in the **Custom deployment** blade, perform the following actions:

    a. Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    a. In the **Resource group** section, select the **Use existing** option.

    a. In the **Resource group** section, locate the list and select the **MOD02APPS** option.

    a. In the **Function App Name** field, enter a globally unique value. This will be used to create the unique URL for this *Function App*.

    a. In the **Terms and Conditions** section, select the *I agree to the terms and conditions stated above* checkbox.

    a. Click the **Purchase** button.

1. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: View Deployment Metadata

1. On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

1. In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD02APPS** *Resource Group* link.

1. In the **MOD02APPS** blade, locate the **Settings** section on the left side of the blade and click the **Deployments** link. 

1. In the **Deployments** pane, select the latest deployment to view its metadata in a new blade.

1. Within the deployment blade, observe the information displayed in the **Inputs** and **Outputs** sections.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you deployed a more sophisticated template that created multiple resources using a combination of parameters, variables and output values.

## Exercise 4: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1. At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

1. In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```
    az group list
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of possible CLI commands to *delete a Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --help
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD02STOR** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD02STOR --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD02APPS** *Resource Group*:

    ```
    az group delete --name MOD02APPS --no-wait --yes
    ```

1. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1. Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

1. Close the currently running **Visual Studio Code** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
